So those of us who believe in democracy
We need to speak out forcefully.
Because both the facts
and history I believe are on our side.
That doesn't mean democracies are without flaws.
It does mean that the cure for what ails our democracies is greater engagement by our citizens not less.
Yes in America there is too much money in politics.
Too much entrenched partisanship too too little participation by citizens.
In part because of a patchwork of laws that makes it harder to vote.
In Europe a well intentioned Brussels often became too isolated from the normal normal push and pull of national politics.
Too often in capitals
decision makers have forgotten that democracy needs to be driven by civic engagement from the bottom up not governance by experts from the top down.
And so these are real problems.
And as leaders of democratic governments make the case for democracy abroad
we better strive harder to set a better example at home.
Moreover every country will organize its government
informed by centuries of history and the circumstances of geography and the deeply held beliefs of its people.
So I recognize a traditional society may value unity and cohesion
more than a diverse country like my own which was founded upon what at the time was a radical idea.
The idea of the liberty of individual human beings
endowed with certain God given rights.
But that does not mean that ordinary people in Asia or Africa or the Middle East
somehow prefer arbitrary rule that denies them a voice in the decisions that can shape their lives.
I believe that spirit is universal.
And if any of you doubt the universality of that desire
listen to the voices of young people everywhere
who call out for freedom and dignity
and the opportunity to control their own lives.
This leads me to the third thing we need to do.
We must reject
any forms of fundamentalism
or racism
or
a belief in ethnic superiority that makes our traditional identities irreconcilable with modernity.
Instead we need to embrace the tolerance that results from respect of all human beings.
It's a truism that global integration has led to a collision of cultures.
Trade migration the internet all these things can challenge
and unsettle our most cherished identities.
We see liberal societies express opposition when women choose to cover themselves.
We see protests responding to Western newspaper cartoons that caricature the Prophet Muhammad.
In a world that let that left the age of empire behind
we see Russia attempting to recover lost glory
through force.
Asian powers debate competing claims of history.
And in Europe and the United States you see people wrestle with concerns about immigration and changing demographics
and suggesting that somehow
people who look different
are corrupting the character of our countries.
Now there's no easy answer for resolving all these social forces.
And we must respect the meaning that people draw from their own traditions from their religion from their ethnicity.
From their sense of nationhood.
But I do not believe progress is possible if our desire to preserve our identities gives way to an impulse to dehumanize or dominate another group.
If our religion leads us to persecute those of another faith
If we jail or beat people who are gay
If our traditions lead us to prevent girls from going to school
If we discriminate on the basis of race or tribe or ethnicity
then the fragile bonds of civilization will fray.
The world is too small.
We are too packed together
for us to be able to resort
to those old ways of thinking.
We see this mindset in too many parts of the Middle East.
There so much of the collapse in order has been fueled because
leaders sought legitimacy not because of policies or programs but
by resorting to
persecuting political opposition or demonizing other religious sects.
By narrowing the public space to the mosque where in too many places
perversions of
a great faith were tolerated.
And these forces built up for years
and are now at work helping to fuel both serious tragic civil war and the mindless medieval menace of ISIL.
The mindset of sectarianism and extremism and bloodletting and retribution
that has been taking place will not be quickly reversed.
And if we are honest we understand that no external power is going to be able to force different religious communities or ethnic communities to coexist for long.
But I do believe we have to be honest about the nature of these conflicts.
And our international community must continue to work with those who seek to build rather than to destroy.
And there is a military component to that.
It means being united and relentless in destroying networks like ISIL which show no respect for human life.
But it also means that in a place like Syria where there is no ultimate military victory to be won
we're going to have to pursue the hard work of diplomacy that aims to stop the violence.
And deliver aid to those in need.
And support those who pursue a political settlement and can see those who are not like themselves
as worthy of dignity and respect.
Across the regions conflicts.
We have to insist that all parties recognize a common humanity.
And that nations end proxy wars that fuel disorder.
Because until basic questions are answered about how communities coexist
the embers of extremism will continue to burn.
Countless human beings will suffer.
Most of all in that region.
But extremism will continue to be exported overseas.
And the world is too small for us to simply be able to build a wall and prevent it from affecting our own societies.
And what is true in the Middle East is true for all of us.
Surely religious traditions can be honored and upheld while teaching young people science and math rather than intolerance.
Surely we can sustain our unique traditions while giving women their full and rightful role in the politics and economics of a nation.
Surely we can rally our nations to solidarity
while recognizing equal treatment for all communities whether it's a religious minority in Myanmar or an ethnic minority in Burundi or a racial minority right here in the United States.
And surely Israelis and Palestinians will be better off if Palestinians reject incitement and and recognize the legitimacy
of Israel but Israel recognizes that it cannot permanently occupy and settle Palestinian land.