Let me conclude by saying that I recognize history tells a different story than the one that I've talked about here today.
There's a much darker and more cynical view of history that we can adopt.
Human beings are too often motivated by greed and by power.
Big countries for most of history have pushed smaller ones around.
Tribes and ethnic groups and nation states have very often found it most convenient to define themselves by what they hate and not just those ideas that bind them together.
Time and again human beings have believed that they finally arrived at a period of enlightenment only to repeat them cycles of conflict and suffering.
Perhaps that's our fate.
We have to remember that the choices of individual human beings led to repeated World War.
But we also have to remember that the choices of individual human beings created a United Nations so that a war like that would never happen again.
Each of us as leaders each nation can choose to reject those who appeal to our worst impulses and embrace those who appeal to our best.
For we have shown that we can choose a better history.
Sitting in a prison cell a young Martin Luther King Junior wrote that human progress never rolls on the wheels of inevitability it comes through the tireless efforts of men willing to be co-workers with God.
And during the course of these eight years as I've traveled to many of your nations I have seen that spirit in our young people who are more educated and more tolerant and more inclusive and more diverse and more creative than our generation.
Who are more empathetic and compassionate towards their fellow human beings than previous generations.
And yes some of that comes with the idealism of youth but it also comes with young people's access to information about other peoples and places an understanding unique in human history that their future is bound with the faiths of other human beings on the other side of the world.
I think of the thousands of healthcare workers from around the world who volunteered to fight Ebola.
I remember the young entrepreneurs I met who are now starting new businesses in Cuba.
The parliamentarians who used to be just a few years ago political prisoners in Myanmar.
I think of the girls who have brave taunts or violence just to go to school in Afghanistan.
And the university students who started programs online to reject the extremism of organizations like ISIL.
I draw strength from the young Americans entrepreneurs activists soldiers new citizens who are remaking our nation once again.
Who are unconstrained by old habits and old conventions and unencumbered by what is but are instead ready to seize what ought to be.
My own family is made up of the flesh and blood and traditions and cultures and faiths from a lot of different parts of the world.
Just as America's been built by immigrants from every shore.
And in my own life in this country and as president I have learned that our identities do not have to be defined by putting someone else down but can be enhanced by lifting somebody else up.
They don't have to be defined in opposition to others but rather by a belief in liberty and equality and justice and fairness.
And the embrace of these principles as universal doesn't weaken my particular pride my particular love for America it strengthens it.
My belief that these ideals apply everywhere doesn't lessen my commitment to help those who look like me or pray as I do or pledge allegiance to my flag.
But my faith in those principles does force me to expand my moral imagination and to recognize that I can best serve my own people I can best look after my own daughters by making sure that my actions seek what is right for all people and all children and your daughters and your sons.
This is what I believe that all of us can be co-workers with God.
And our leadership and our governments and this United Nations should reflect this irreducible truth.
Thank you very much.