So the answer cannot be a simple rejection of global integration.
Instead we must work together to make sure the benefits of such integration are broadly shared and that the disruptions economic political and cultural that are caused by integration are squarely addressed.
This is not the place for a detailed policy blueprint but let me offer in broad strokes those areas where I believe we must do better together.
It starts with making the global economy work better for all people and not just for those at the top.
While open markets capitalism have raised standards of living around the globe.
Globalization combined with rapid progress in technology has also weakened the position of workers and their ability to secure a decent wage.
In advanced economies like my own unions have been undermined and many manufacturing jobs have disappeared.
Often those who benefit most from globalization have used their political power to further undermine the position of workers.
In developing countries labor organizations have often been suppressed and the growth of the middle class has been held back by corruption and underinvestment.
Mercantilist policies pursued by governments with export driven models threaten to undermine the consensus that underpins global trade.
And meanwhile global capital is too often unaccountable nearly eight trillion dollars stashed away in tax savings.
And a shadow banking system that grows beyond the reach of effective oversight.
A world in which one percent of humanity controls as much wealth as the other ninety nine percent will never be stable.
I understand that the gaps between rich and poor are not new but just as the child in a slum today can see the skyscraper nearby technology now allows any person with a smartphone to see how the most privileged among us live.
And the contrast between their own lives and others.
Expectations rise then faster than governments can deliver and a pervasive sense of injustice undermine people's faith in the system.
So how do we fix this imbalance?
We cannot unwind integration any more than we can stuff technology back into a box.
Nor can we look to failed models of the past.
If we start resorting to trade wars market distorting subsidies beggar thy neighbor policies an over reliance on natural resources instead of innovation these approaches will make us poorer collectively and they are more likely to lead to conflict.
And the start contrast between say the success of the Republic of Korea and the wasteland of North Korea shows that central planned control of the economy is a dead end.
But I do believe there is another path one that fuels growth and innovation and offers the clearest route to individual opportunity and national success.
It does not require succumbing to a soulless capitalism that benefits only the few but rather recognizes that economies are more successful when we close the gap between rich and poor and growth is broadly based.
And that means respecting the rights of workers so they can organize into independent unions and earn a living wage.
It means investing in our people their skills their education their capacity to take an idea and turn it into a business.
It means strengthening the safety net that protects our people from hardship and allows them to take more risks to look for a new job or start a new venture.
These are the policies that I pursued here in the United States and with clear results.
American businesses have created now fifteen million new jobs.
After the recession the top one percent of Americans were capturing more than ninety percent of income growth but today that is down to about half.
Last year poverty in this country fell at the fastest rate in nearly fifty years.
And with further investment in infrastructure and early childhood education and basic research I am confident that such progress will continue.
So just as I have pursued these measures here at home so has the United States worked with many nations to curb the excesses of capitalism.
Not to punish wealth but to prevent repeated crises that can destroy it.
That is why we have worked with other nations to create higher and clearer standards for banking and taxation.
Because a society that asks less of oligarchs than ordinary citizens will rot from within.
That is why we have pushed for transparency and cooperation in rooting out corruption.
And tracking illicit dollars.
Because markets create more jobs when they are fueled by hard work and not the capacity to extort a bribe.
That is why we have worked to reach trade agreements that raise labor standards and raise environmental standards as we have done with the Trans Pacific Partnership so that the benefits are more broadly shared.
And just as we benefit by combating inequality within our countries I believe advanced economies still need to do more to close the gap between rich and poor nations around the globe.
This is difficult politically.
It is difficult to spend on foreign assistance.
But I do not believe this is charity.
For the small fraction of what we spent at war in Iraq we could support institutions so that fragile states do not collapse in the first place.
And invest in emerging economies that become markets for our goods.
It is not just the right thing to do it is the smart thing to do.
And that is why we need to follow through on our efforts to combat climate change.
If we do not act boldly the bill that could come due will be mass migrations and cities submerged and nations displaced and food supplies decimated and conflicts born of despair.
The Paris Agreement gives us a framework to act but only if we scale up our ambition and there must be a sense of urgency about bringing the agreement into force and helping poorer countries leapfrog destructive forms of energy.
So for the wealthiest countries a green climate fund should only be the beginning.
We need to invest in research and provide market incentives to develop new technologies and then make these technologies accessible and affordable for poorer countries.
And only then can we continue lifting all people up from poverty without condemning our children to a planet beyond their capacity to repair.