Despite enormous progress as people lose trust in institutions.
Governing becomes more difficult.
And tensions between nations become more quick to surface.
And so I believe that at this moment we all face a choice.
We can choose to press forward with a better model of cooperation and integration.
Or we can retreat into a world sharply divided.
And ultimately in conflict along age old lines of nation and tribe and race and religion.
I want to suggest to you today that we must go forward and not backward.
I believe that as imperfect as they are the principles of open markets and accountable governance of democracy and human rights and international law that we have forged remain the firmest foundation for human progress in this century.
I make this argument not based on theory or ideology but on facts.
Facts that all too often we forget in the immediacy of current events.
Here's the most important fact.
The integration of our global economy has made life better for billions of men women and children.
Over the last twenty five years the number of people living in extreme poverty has been cut from nearly forty percent of humanity to under ten percent.
That's unprecedented.
And it's not an abstraction it means children have enough to eat.
Mothers don't die in childbirth.
Meanwhile cracking the genetic code promises to cure diseases that have plagued us for centuries.
The internet can deliver the entirety of human knowledge to a young girl in a remote village on a single handheld device.
In medicine and in manufacturing and education and communications we're experiencing a transformation of how human beings live on a scale that recalls the revolutions in agriculture and industry.
And as a result a person born today is more likely to be healthy to live longer and to have access to opportunity than at any time in human history.
Moreover the collapse of colonialism and communism has allowed more people than ever before to live with the freedom to choose their leaders.
Despite the real and troubling areas where freedom appears in retreat.
The fact remains that the number of democracies around the world has nearly doubled in the last twenty five years.
In remote corners of the world citizens are demanding respect for the dignity of all people no matter their gender or race or religion or disability.
Or sexual orientation and those who deny others dignity are subject to public reproach.
An explosion of social media has given ordinary people more ways to express themselves.
And has raised peoples expectations for those of us in power.
Indeed our international order has been so successful that we take it as a given that great power is no longer fight World Wars.
That the end of the Cold War lifted the shadow of nuclear Armageddon.
That the battlefields of Europe have been replaced by peaceful union.
That China and India remain on a path of remarkable growth.
I say all this not to whitewash the challenges we face or to suggest complacency.
Rather I believe that we need to acknowledge these achievements in order to summon the confidence to carry this progress forward.
And to make sure that we do not abandon those very things that have delivered this progress.
In order to move forward though we do have to acknowledge that the existing path to global integration requires a course correction.
Because too often those trumpeting the benefits of globalization have ignored inequality within and among nations.
Have ignored the enduring appeal of ethnic and sectarian identities.
Have left international institutions ill equipped underfunded under resourced in order to handle transnational challenges.
And as these real problems have been neglected alternative visions of the world have pressed forward.
Both in the wealthiest countries and in the poorest.
Religious fundamentalism.
The politics of ethnicity or tribe or sect.
Aggressive nationalism.
A crude populism sometimes from the far left but more often from the far right which seeks to restore what they believe was a better simpler age free of outside contamination.
We cannot dismiss these visions.
They are powerful.
They reflect dissatisfaction among too many of our citizens.
I do not believe those visions can deliver security or prosperity over the long term.
But I do believe that these visions fail to recognize at a very basic level our common humanity.
Moreover I believe that the acceleration of travel and technology and telecommunications together with a global economy that depends on a global supply chain makes itself defeating ultimately for those who seek to reverse this progress.
Today a nation ringed by walls would only imprison itself.