Mr. President.
Mr. Secretary General.
Fellow delegates.
Ladies and gentlemen.
As I address this hall as president for the final time.
Let me recount the progress that we've made these last eight years.
From the depths of the greatest financial crisis of our time we coordinated our response to avoid further catastrophe and return the global economy to growth.
We've taken away terrorist safe havens.
Strengthened the nonproliferation regime.
Resolved the Iranian nuclear issue through diplomacy.
We opened relations with Cuba.
Helped Colombia and end Latin America's longest war.
And we welcome a democratically elected leader of Myanmar to this assembly.
Our assistance is helping people feed themselves.
Care for the sick.
Power communities across Africa.
And promote models of development rather than dependence.
And we have made international institutions like the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund more representative.
While establishing a framework to protect our planet from the ravages of climate change.
This is important work.
It has made a real difference in the lives of our people.
And it could not have happened had we not worked together.
And yet around the globe.
We are seeing the same forces of global integration.
That have made us interdependent.
Also exposed deep fault lines in the existing international order.
We see it in the headlines every day.
Around the world refugees flow across borders in flight from brutal conflict.
Financial disruptions continue to weigh upon our workers and entire communities.
Across vast swathes of the Middle East basic security.
Basic order has broken down.
We see too many governments muzzling journalists and quashing dissent and censoring the flow of information.
Terrorist networks use social media to prey upon the minds of our youth endangering open societies and spurring anger against innocent immigrants and Muslims.
Powerful nations.
Contest.
The constraints placed on them by international law.
And this is the paradox that defines our world today.
A quarter century after the end of the Cold War.
The world is by many measures less violent and more prosperous than ever before.
And yet our societies are filled with uncertainty.
And unease.
And strife.