We all have to do better.
As leaders in tamping down rather than encouraging.
A notion of identity that leads us to diminish others.
This leads me to the fourth and final thing we need to do and that is to sustain our commitment to international cooperation.
Rooted in the rights and responsibilities of nations.
As President of the United States I know that for most of human history power has not been unipolar.
The end of the Cold War may have led too many to forget this truth.
I've noticed as president that at times both America's adversaries and some of our allies believe that all problems were either caused by Washington or could be solved by Washington.
And perhaps too many in Washington believe that as well.
But I believe America has been a rare superpower in human history.
In so far as it has been willing to think beyond narrow self-interest.
That while we've made our share of mistakes over these last twenty five years.
I've acknowledged some.
We have strived sometimes at great sacrifice to align better our actions with our ideals.
And as a consequence I believe we have been a force for good.
We have secured allies.
We've acted to protect the vulnerable.
We've supported human rights and welcomed scrutiny of our own actions.
We've bound our power to international laws and institutions.
When we've made mistakes we've tried to acknowledge them.
We have worked to roll back poverty and hunger and disease beyond our borders not just within our borders.
I'm proud of that.
But I also know that we can't do this alone.
And I believe that if we're to meet the challenges of this century we are all going to have to do more to build up international capacity.
We cannot escape the prospect of nuclear war unless we all commit to stopping the spread of nuclear weapons and pursuing a world without them.
When Iran agrees to accept constraints on its nuclear program that enhances global security and enhances Iran's ability to work with other nations.
On the other hand when North Korea tests a bomb that endangers all of us.
And any country that breaks this basic bargain must face consequences.
And those nations with these weapons like the United States have a unique responsibility to pursue the path of reducing our stock piles.
And reaffirming basic norms like the commitment to never test them again.
We can't combat a disease like Zika that recognizes no borders mosquitoes don't respect walls.
Unless we make permanent the same emergency that we brought to bear against Ebola.
By strengthening our own systems of public health.
By investing in cures and rolling back the root causes of disease and helping poorer countries develop a public health infrastructure.
We can only eliminate extreme poverty if the sustainable development goals that we have set are more than words on paper.
Human ingenuity now gives us the capacity to feed the hungry and give all of our children including our girls the education that is the foundation for opportunity in our world.
But we have to put our money where our mouths are.
And we can only realize the promise of this institutions founding to replace the ravages of war with cooperation if powerful nations like my own accept constraints.
Sometimes I'm criticized in my own country for professing a belief in international norms and multilateral institutions.
But I am convinced that in the long run giving up some freedom of action not giving up our ability to protect ourselves or pursue our core interests but binding ourselves to international rules over the long term enhances our security.
And I think that's not just true for us.
If Russia continues to interfere in the affairs of its neighbors it may be popular at home it may fuel nationalist fervor for a time but over time it is also going to diminish its stature and make its borders less secure.
In the South China Sea a peaceful resolution of disputes offered by law will mean far greater stability than the militarization of a few rocks and reefs.
We are all stakeholders in this international system.
And it calls upon all of us to invest in the success of institutions to which we belong.
And the good news is that many nations have shown what kind of progress is possible when we make those commitments.
Consider what we've accomplished here over the past few years.
Together we mobilized some fifty thousand additional troops for UN peacekeeping.
Making them nimble better equipped better prepared to deal with emergencies.
Together we established an open government partnership so that increasingly transparency empowers more and more people around the globe.
And together now we have to open our hearts and do more to help refugees who are desperate for a home.
We should all welcome the pledges of increased assistance that have been made at this General Assembly gathering.
I'll be discussing that more this afternoon but we have to follow through even when the politics are hard.
Because in the eyes of innocent men and women and children who through no fault of their own have had to flee everything that they know everything that they love.
We have to have the empathy to see ourselves.
We have to imagine what it would be like for our family for our children.
If the unspeakable happened to us.
And we should all understand that ultimately our world will be more secure if we are prepared to help those in need and the nations who are carrying the largest burden with respect to accommodating these refugees.
There are a lot of nations right now that are doing the right thing.
But many nations particularly those blessed with wealth and the benefits of geography can do more to offer a hand.
Even if they also insist that refugees who come to our countries have to do more to adapt to the customs and conventions of the communities that are now providing them a home.