So. We need new models for the global marketplace. Models that are inclusive and sustainable. And in the same way we need models of governance that are inclusive and accountable to ordinary people. I recognize not every country in this hall is going to follow the same model of governance. I do not think that America can or should impose our system of government on other countries. But there appears to be a growing contest between authoritarianism and liberalism right now. And I want everybody to understand I am not neutral in that contest. I believe in a liberal political order. An order built not just through elections and representative government but also through respect for human rights and civil society and independent judiciaries and the rule of law. I know that some countries which now recognize the power free markets still reject the model of free societies. And perhaps those of us who have been promoting democracy feel somewhat discouraged since the end of the Cold War. Because we've learned that liberal democracy will not just wash across the globe in a single wave. It turns out building accountable institutions is hard work. The work of generations. The gains are often fragile. Sometimes we take one step forward and then two steps back. In countries held together by borders drawn by colonial powers. With ethnic enclaves and tribal divisions. Politics and elections can sometimes appear to be a zero sum game. And so given the difficulty in forging true democracy in the face of these pressures. It's no surprise that some argue the future favors the strong man. A top down model rather than strong democratic institutions. But I believe this thinking is wrong. I believe the road of true democracy remains the better path. I believe that in the twenty first century economies can only grow to a certain point until they need to open up because entrepreneurs need to access information in order to invent. Young people need a global education in order to thrive. Independent media needs to check the abuses of power. Without this evolution ultimately expectations of people will not be met. Suppression and stagnation will set in. And history shows that strong men are then left with two paths. Permanent crackdown. Which sparks strife at home. Or scapegoating enemies abroad which can lead to war. Now I will admit my belief that governments serve the individual and not the other way around is shaped by America's story. Our nation began with a promise of freedom that applied only to the few but because of our democratic constitution because of our Bill of Rights because of our ideals ordinary people were able to organize and march and protest. And ultimately those ideals won out. Open doors for women and minorities and workers in ways that made our economy more productive and turned our diversity into a strength. That gave innovators the chance to transform every area of human endeavor. That made it possible for someone like me to be elected President of the United States. So yes my views are shaped by the specific experiences of America but I do not think this story is unique to America. Look at the transformation that's taken place in countries as different as Japan and Chile. Indonesia. Botswana. The countries that have succeeded are ones in which people feel they have a stake. In Europe the progress of those countries in the former Soviet bloc that embraced democracy stand in clear contrast to those that did not. After all the people of Ukraine did not take to the streets because of some plot imposed from abroad. They took to the streets because their leadership was for sale. And they had no recourse. They demanded change because they saw life get better for people in the Baltics and in Poland. Societies that were more liberal and democratic and open than their own.